HTGAA 2026 - Zoom Recording (Jan 21, 2026)
Title: HTGAA 2026- Shared screen with speaker view
Date: Jan 21, 2026 08:31 AM
Duration: 2:53:17

TRANSCRIPT:

TA, Dominika Wawrzyniak, Genspace
00:00:00
One of you is going to go through.

Oh, I'm going to start again, because the recording just started. Okay.

You heard on Monday about the synthetic biodesign cycle, which is what every one of you is going to go through throughout of the How to Grow Almost Anything course, and during your individual, as well as the, group projects.

We are going to teach you all of the steps that you can see here, and all of the methods with time, but today, we are going to talk about the guiding principle that underlies everything in the design cycle.

And no matter what, the main, how you formulate your question,you are going to use these question words at some point. Oh, sorry.You're going to use… My apologies. These question words. How, what, if, does, when, which, why, where?

Very typical questions, and you, and what you can do is, when formulating your question, you can differentiate between making it quantitative, like what a scientist would probably do.

examples for hypotheses that we have, that we have posed here in How to Grow Almost Anything.

Would be, for example, is it possible to change the color of the fluorescent protein by changing the amino acids in its fluorophore, and is it possible to increase host resistance of bacteriophages by introducing changes to the genome?

And now, these are a bit simplified, just for this, for this presentation. They aren't exactly novel questions in the way, in the way that I'm portraying them here.

The actual hypothesis that we are asked are a bit more specific, and if you want to see more details about those questions, see the Mondays talk about, our group projects, if you haven't already.

Alright, so we got our hypothesis, you have formulated something that is testable, and you have predicted some outcomes based on your hypothesis that you can test in the lab.

So let's move on to performing the experiments.

Now we enter the fourth phase, the experimental phase, where we put our hypothesis and any predictions based on it to the test. In this talk, I won't be talking about methods or concrete experiments.